[audio playing...]
Why do people internationally only want
to see us as victims on this percolating
on our tears and blood, romanticizing
the violence. It is offensive for those
who come from colonial and Imperial
countries to realize that we are equals
or more beautiful people with a rich
cultural heritage. across the ages,
Russia stole not only our art objects,
but our rights to self determination. We
are fighting for the rights to build our
own identity. I am a woman with strength
with anger and the power to create bring
into light our spirits, our own beliefs
within humanity and this new
circumstances. We are considering what
the new function of art is in a
narrative without imperialism, and
people like activist and artists and
ushering in a fighting for all of this,
it's a moment when the most important
case is also to survive.
All of us were scared. We didn't expect
this. I understand that that was stupid.
But still, I didn't believe this would
happen. But after one month, we began to
have many meetings with our teammates
there, the Organization for Women of
hockey, including lesbian and bisexual
women. We started to talk about how we
could support the community raising
money for food, clothing medicine. At
the same time, we understood that
homophobia and misogyny are still
present in our society. And we wanted to
show what women and the LGBT plus
community are doing for our victory,
which shows the format of performance
interventions in the city. Because large
scale public gatherings are banned
during wartime. The first intervention
was just me and my girlfriend, were
created this procession with two flags,
one for Ukraine and the other, the
lesbian flag for hockey bride. We were
scared just to walk on the streets.
There had been a lot of air raid
signals, many bombs and rockets. But we
tried to say something to ourselves,
that we can walk in the city, even if
the buildings are destroyed, to show
that we are brave, even in these
moments, to say that we stayed in our
own city, and we are who we are.
The next intervention was a performance
with a bit of silence.
There was a lot of flowers, rainbow
flags and candles, remembering all the
Ukrainian heroes who were killed in
Dubai done in 2014. And the Russian was
on Ukraine since aloe vera, one of our
volunteers for Hodgkin pride was in our
administration building on a rocket hit.
He had slept there because she was a
volunteer in the kitchen. And she died.
My girlfriend's has no rights to ask
about her body, or to help her parents
with a funeral. So in this performance,
we remembered Olivia two
after that, we created a performance
with a rainbow car recreating a lesbian
wedding, which were covered in many
ribbons and words for marriage equality.
We created a performance about the wives
of Russian rapists. We made this protest
after Bucha because I realized that if I
didn't do anything, it would make me
crazy. That I must say something. After
Bucha all Ukrainian woman understood
that it would be with our bodies with
our daughters bodies. We hold this
trauma. So we gathered stuff similar to
what they steal, clothes, underwear
electronics, and we left it near the
Russian cancel and Harkey with a poster
that said for the wives of Russian
rapists.
Before the 24th of February, Harkin had
a lot of trade with Russia, and people
came here to work. Go to the theater
cinema. We didn't take Russia. But it is
important how many people change their
minds are the first I was a pacifist.
And now I'm really confused with what I
can do with my peaceful beliefs and how
I can realize my own value. It's
important to continue to choose human
rights every time. This is why we
continue to organize our events, to make
sure we have our place in our own city
to speak aloud. Because we are fighting
not only against the Russian army, we
are fighting for our values.
[audio playing...]